Add KCL tutorial (#2790)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/ksphere/kommander/latest/tutorials/use-kcl-from-kubectl/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Using Kommander Cluster Lifecycle API via kubectl
title: Using Kommander Cluster Lifecycle API via kubectl
excerpt: Basic Kommander Cluster Lifecycle API (KCL) operations with kubectl
---

> In this tutorial we're going to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial coves the following topics:
```

> - create a Workspaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating workspaces.
```

> - provision a cluster in the Workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provisioning a cluster in the workspace.
```

> - create a Project in the Workspace having the cluster in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating a project in a workspace having a cluster.
```

> - create a custom role in the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating create a custom role in a project.
```

## Prerequisites

> You need to have `kubectl` connected to your Kommander Management cluster using the Token flow.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: Add link to token flow page.

Author: Would be great! I don't think we have the token flow covered in the documentation yet.

> Make sure KCL pods are running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure KCL pods are running.
```

```

## Viewing KCL Logs

```
kubectl -n kommander logs -l control-plane=kcl-cm -c controller-manager
```

### Viewing KCL Webhook Logs

```
kubectl -n kommander logs -l control-plane=kcl-webhook
```

## Working with the Workspaces

Learn more about [Workspaces][kommander_workspaces] in Kommander.

### Show the list of the Workspaces

```
$ kubectl get workspaces

NAME                     DISPLAY NAME             WORKSPACE NAMESPACE            AGE
default-workspace        Default Workspace        default-workspace-4clss        77m
```

### Creating a new Workspace

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: workspaces.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workspace
metadata:
  name: workspacetest
EOF
```

List workspaces again to get the Workspace namespace. We are going to need it further.

```
$ kubectl get workspaces

NAME                     DISPLAY NAME             WORKSPACE NAMESPACE            AGE
default-workspace        Default Workspace        default-workspace-4clss        95m
workspacetest                                     workspacetest-r69q2            77s
```

## Creating a cluster in the Workspace

### Creating an AWS Cloud Provider

> In this tutorial we are going to be using AWS Provider. Althouhg you can use any other supported [infrastructure provider][infrastructure_provider].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we are using AWS Provide, but you can use any other supported [infrastructure provider][infrastructure_provider].
```

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Assuming you logged in with aws-cli
</p>

> 

Reviewer 2: Create a 
```suggestion
To create a cluster you need to setup the secret with the AWS credentials and a CloudProviderAccount.

```

```
BASE64_ARGS="-w 0"
if [ "$(uname)" == "Darwin" ]; then
  BASE64_ARGS=
fi

CREDENTIALS=$( base64 ${BASE64_ARGS} ~/.aws/credentials )
PROFILE=$(echo -n "${AWS_PROFILE}" | base64 ${BASE64_ARGS} )

cat - << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: aws-credentials
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
data:
  credentials: ${CREDENTIALS}
  profile: ${PROFILE}
type: kommander.mesosphere.io/aws-credentials
---
apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
kind: CloudProviderAccount
metadata:
  name: aws-credentials
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
  annotations:
    kommander.mesosphere.io/display-name: My AWS Credentials
spec:
  provider: aws
  credentialsRef:
    name: aws-credentials
EOF
```

### Creating a cluster

> To create a cluster via KCL means we ecreate a KonvoyCluster CRD in the Workspace namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a cluster using KCL means you ecreate a KonvoyCluster CRD in the Workspace namespace.
```

Reviewer 2: Typo in `ecreate` and wdyt of pointing out we need the CloudProviderAccount?

```suggestion
To create a cluster using KCL means you create a KonvoyCluster CRD in the Workspace namespace. You need to reference the CloudProviderAccount with the AWS credentials you created in the previous step.
```

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
kind: KonvoyCluster
metadata:
  name: sample-kubernetes-tutorial
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
spec:
  cluster:
    kubernetes:
      version: 1.16.4
  provisioner:
    provider: aws
  cloudProviderAccountRef:
    name: aws-credentials
EOF
```

> You can check the KCL controller manager logs to verify cluster creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the KCL controller manager logs to verify cluster creation.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check the KCL controller manager logs to verify cluster provisioning started.
```

```
kubectl -n kommander logs -l control-plane=kcl-cm -c controller-manager
```

> To provision a cluster KCL uses Kubernetes Jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provision a cluster KCL uses Kubernetes Jobs.
```

```
kubectl get jobs -n workspacetest-r69q2
```

> To access logs of the job we need to check its pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access logs of the job we need to check its pod.
```

```
$ kubectl get pods -n workspacetest-r69q2

NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
sample-kubernetes-tutorial-z9hqw   1/1     Running   0          47s
```

> Now when we know the pod name we can check the logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we know the pod name we can check the logs.
```

```
kubectl -n workspacetest-r69q2 logs sample-kubernetes-tutorial-z9hqw -f
```

> Waiting for the cluster to be provisioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waiting for the cluster to be provisioned.
```

```
$ kubectl -n workspacetest-r69q2 get konvoycluster -w

NAME                         DISPLAY NAME   STATUS         PROVIDER   AGE
sample-kubernetes-tutorial                  Provisioning   aws        5m48s
```

> The kubeconfig to access the new cluster is stored in a secret. Let's save it for later use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubeconfig to access the new cluster is stored in a secret. Save that for later use.
```

```
kubectl -n workspacetest-r69q2 get secret --field-selector type=kommander.mesosphere.io/kubeconfig -o=jsonpath="{.items[0].data.kubeconfig}" | base64 -d > sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig
```

## Working with Projects

Learn more about [Projects][kommander_projects] in Kommander.

### Create a new Project

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: workspaces.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: projecttest
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
spec:
  workspaceRef:
    name: workspacetest
  placement:
    clusters:
      - name: sample-kubernetes-tutorial
EOF
```

> Get tthe Project data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the Project data.
```

```
$ kubectl get projects -A

NAMESPACE                   NAME              DISPLAY NAME      PROJECT NAMESPACE       AGE
workspacetest-r69q2         projecttest                         projecttest-5r55h       56s
```

> Check the Project's namespace is federated to the target cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the Project's namespace is federated to the target cluster.
```

```
$ kubectl --kubeconfig sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig get namespaces

NAME                    STATUS   AGE
***                     ***      ***
projecttest-5r55h       Active   12m
***                     ***      ***
```

> Check default Project roles in the target cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check default Project roles in the target cluster.
```

```
$ kubectl --kubeconfig sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig -n projecttest-5r55h get roles

NAME                           AGE
project-app-deployer-gl4d4     14m
project-auditor-xrvj8          14m
project-config-manager-fv5sz   14m
```

#### Create a custom Project Role

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: workspaces.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectRole
metadata:
  name: projectrole-podreader
  namespace: projecttest-5r55h
spec:
  rules:
    - apiGroups: [""] # "" indicates the core API group
      resources: ["pods"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
EOF
```

> Check the role is properly federated to the target cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the role is properly federated to the target cluster.
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig -n projecttest-5r55h get roles -w

NAME                           AGE
***                            ***
projectrole-podreader-wbwzv    15s
```

> Check the role's yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the role's yaml.
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig -n projecttest-5r55h get roles projectrole-podreader-wbwzv -o yaml
```

> #### Delete the role

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Delete the custom Project Role
```

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl delete -f -
apiVersion: workspaces.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectRole
metadata:
  name: projectrole-podreader
  namespace: projecttest-5r55h
spec:
  rules:
    - apiGroups: [""] # "" indicates the core API group
      resources: ["pods"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]

> EOF

Reviewer 2: I think this is simpler.

```suggestion
kubectl -n projecttest-5r55h delete projectrole projectrole-podreader
```

```

#### Delete the Project

> This can take a few minutes to delete all the resources in the target cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may take a few minutes to delete all the resources in the target cluster.
```

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl delete -f -
apiVersion: workspaces.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: projecttest
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
spec:
  workspaceRef:
    name: workspacetest
  placement:
    clusters:
      - name: sample-kubernetes-tutorial
EOF
```

> Check the Projetc's namespace is deleted in the target cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the Project's namespace is deleted in the target cluster.
```

```
kubectl --kubeconfig sample-kubernetes-tutorial.kubeconfig get namespaces
```

## Delete the cluster

```
cat - << EOF | kubectl delete -f -
apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
kind: KonvoyCluster
metadata:
  name: sample-kubernetes-tutorial
  namespace: workspacetest-r69q2
spec:
  cluster:
    kubernetes:
      version: 1.16.4
    provisioner:
      provider: aws
    cloudProviderAccountRef:
      name: aws-credentials

> EOF

Reviewer 2: I think this is simpler.

```suggestion
kubectl -n workspacetest-r69q2 delete  konvoycluster sample-kubernetes-tutorial
```
